Blog: NPS vs CSAT vs CES (#7182)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/product-engineers/nps-vs-csat-vs-ces.md

Reviewer: Would love to have some examples of what I can do with each of the scores once I have them. Right now, it just seems like the scores are either good or bad, and then you can make changes to try to improve them, but what changes? Any examples you could bring into this?

---
date: 2023-11-17
title: "NPS vs CSAT vs CES: Which is best for SaaS"
author:
  - lior-neu-ner
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-marketing/marketing-hog.jpg
featuredImageType: full
tags:
  - Product analytics
  - Product metrics
  - Product engineers
  - Surveys
---

> Here's the short version of what you need to know about NPS, CSAT, and CES:

Reviewer 2: Additional thought on the intro... if we have an opinionated take (i.e. one or more of these are much better than the other), I think you should put that in the intro. Then the article becomes not just "here's what these things" but "here's why you should use XYZ". That feels more engaging and useful to a reader.

- **NPS** measures long-term user sentiment about your product.
- **CSAT** tells you how users feel about your product _right now_.
- **CES** shows how difficult your product is to use.

In this post, we'll go into the specifics of each [survey](/surveys) and how to use them in your SaaS app.

## What is NPS?

> Net promoter score (NPS) measures user loyalty by asking how likely users are to recommend your product to a friend or coworker. Responses are on a scale from 0 (not likely at all) to 10 (extremely likely).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Net Promoter Score (NPS) measures user loyalty by asking how likely users are to recommend your product to a friend or coworker. Responses are on a scale from 0 (not likely at all) to 10 (extremely likely).
```

  - Product metrics
  - Product engineers
  - Surveys
---

Here's the short version of what you need to know about NPS, CSAT, and CES:

- **NPS** is for measuring long-term user sentiment about your product.
- **CSAT** tells you how users feel about your product _right now_.
- **CES** is for understanding if your product is difficult to use.

And now for the longer version…

In this post, we'll go into the specifics of each [survey](/surveys) and how to use them in your SaaS app.

## What is NPS?

Net promoter score (NPS) measures user loyalty by asking them how likely they are to recommend you to a friend or coworker. 

Users submit their responses on a scale from 0 (not likely at all) to 10 (extremely likely).

![NPS survey](../images/blog/nps-csat-ces/nps-survey.png)

NPS is great as it gives you insight into who your loyal customers are and which are at risk of churning.

### How to calculate NPS score

NPS survey responses are grouped into three categories:

- **Promoters** – people who respond with 9 or 10. They're extremely happy with your product.
- **Passives** – people who respond with 7 or 8. They aren't unhappy, but they're not overly excited either.

> - **Detractors** – people who respond with 6 or below. These people have had a bad experience and are likely to complain to others.

Author: I'll rephrase this, but I feel "haven't seen the value of your product yet" falls into the passives group

![NPS scale](../images/blog/nps-csat-ces/nps-score.png)

Your NPS score is the `% of promoters - % of detractors`. The scores range between -100 (100% negative) and +100 (100% positive).

> For example, let's say you survey `100` people. `70` people give a promoter score and `20` people give a detractor score. Your NPS would be `70% - 20% = 50%`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, let's say you survey `100` people. `50` are promoters, `30` are passives, and `20` are detractors. Your NPS would be `50% - 20% = 30`.
```

### What is a good NPS score for SaaS?

> Anything above 0 is good, above 20 is great, and above 50 is amazing. According to [Satmetrix](https://www.satmetrix.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/07/NICE-Net-Promoter-Benchmarks-2023.pdf), the average NPS score for SaaS apps is 27.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anything above 0 is good, above 20 is great, and above 50 is amazing. According to [Satmetrix](https://www.satmetrix.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/07/NICE-Net-Promoter-Benchmarks-2023.pdf), the average NPS score for software and apps is 27.
```
Could "Rideshare & Food Delivery" and "Online Entertainment" be considered SaaS? Also this a consumer rating, not really accurate for B2B SaaS apps (like basically all the ones you cover below).

Below is a table with a benchmark of NPS scores from well-known SaaS products.

| Product | NPS score |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Snowflake](https://www.snowflake.com/blog/customer-experience-report-2022/) | 72 |
| [Square](https://d1g145x70srn7h.cloudfront.net/documents/investor-relations/presentations/05-11-2018-overview.pdf) | 70 |
| [Zoom](https://blog.zoom.us/zooms-nps-dominates-video-conferencing/) | 69 | 
| [DocuSign](https://www.docusign.com/why-docusign) | 66 |
| [Zapier](https://www.comparably.com/brands/zapier) | 64 |
| [Slack](https://www.comparably.com/brands/slack) | 53 |
| [Mailchimp](https://www.comparably.com/brands/mailchimp) | 47 |
| [NetFlix](https://www.comparably.com/brands/netflix) | 46 |
| [Twilio](https://www.comparably.com/brands/twilio) | 34 |

> | [Dropbox](https://www.comparably.com/brands/dropbox) | 27 | 

Author: Would love feedback on this table. Is it weird that a lot of the links point to comparably? Also, I dont include a table like this for CSAT or CES since I couldn't find data

Reviewer: I think the table is good 👍

### Drawbacks of NPS

> NPS can be tricky because it's often contextless. It gives you an indication of your users' sentiment toward your product but not much else.

Reviewer: Does this counter act what you say earlier?

> NPS is great as it gives you insight into who your loyal customers are and which are at risk of churning.

Author: Rephrased above `NPS is great as it gives you insight into who your loyal customers are and which are at risk of churning.` to `NPS gives you insight into who your loyal customers are and which are at risk of churning.`

I dont think it contradicts: We mention NPS tells you who, but there is still a context gap

This enables you to identify trends in how your product changes are affecting your user experience.

## What is CSAT?

Customer satisfaction (CSAT) score measures how satisfied your users are with a specific feature or product.

Responses typically range from 1-5 or 1-10 on an "extremely dissatisfied – extremely satisfied" scale.

![CSAT survey](../images/blog/nps-csat-ces/csat-survey.png)

CSAT is great because it can be targeted to specific parts of your app, helping you identify where exactly users feel satisfied and where they don't. This makes it easy to find out where you can improve your UX.

### How to calculate CSAT score

Responses are grouped into three categories:

- **Positive responses** – people who respond with 4 or 5 if your scale is from 1-5 (or 8, 9, or 10 if your scale is from 1-10).
- **Everyone else**

![CSAT scale](../images/blog/nps-csat-ces/csat-score.png)

Your CSAT score is the `Total number of positive responses / Total responses = % of satisfied customers`.

For example, let's say you survey `100` people. `70` people give a positive score, your CSAT would be '70 / 100 = 70%`.

> Naturally, a higher CSAT indicates that users are likely to continue using your product. Conversely, low CSAT scores correlate with high churn rates.

Reviewer: Is this true? Users happy with a feature can leave if its too expensive or some other reason. Also, just because a user isn't super happy doesn't mean they churn.

Reviewer: For example, you say below:

> It's also important to note that a high CSAT score doesn't necessarily translate to user loyalty. Users might be satisfied with certain aspects of your product but could still switch to a competitor for reasons not covered in the survey – like pricing or other features.

Author: removed

### What is a good CSAT score for SaaS?

A good score is typically 75-85%. Anything higher is amazing, and anything lower is poor. 

> According to [fullview](https://www.fullview.io/blog/csat-benchmarks-by-industry#toc-csat-benchmarks-for-software-companies), the average CSAT score for SaaS apps is 78.

Reviewer: Do we want to link to a competitor?

Author: They do session replays, but their use case is focused on customer support. So Im not really sure if I would classify them as a competitor

### Drawbacks of CSAT

> Since CSAT survey questions are specific to a feature, customers only answer about what's being asked and nothing more. This means you may miss broader issues with your product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since CSAT survey questions are specific to a feature, you may miss broader issues with your product.
```

It's also important to note that a high CSAT score doesn't necessarily translate to user loyalty. Users might be satisfied with certain aspects of your product but could still switch to a competitor for reasons not covered in the survey – like pricing or other features. 

> Thus, while CSAT is useful for understanding short-term sentiment, it should be paired with other feedback methods to understand the long-term.

Reviewer: Might be a nice point to talk about how CSAT can combine with NPS?

Author: reworked this section

### When to use CSAT surveys

> CSAT surveys are most effective when you need real-time feedback after specific interactions with your product.

Reviewer: Why CSAT over open feedback in this case?

With this in mind, try to use CSAT surveys after key interactions in your user journey. For example:

- **After onboarding –** to understand if your onboarding was effective and engaging.

> - **During [beta testing of a new feature](https://posthog.com/tutorials/beta-feedback) –**  to see if it meets your users' expectations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **During [beta testing of a new feature](/tutorials/beta-feedback) –**  to see if it meets your users' expectations.
```

- **After major app updates –** to understand whether your UX has improved or if there are new issues to address.
- **Before subscription renewal –** to allow you to address any issues beforehand.
- **After customer support interaction –** to see if customers feel their issue has been resolved.

## What is CES?

Customer effort score (CES) measures how easy it is to use your product or feature. 

Users are asked "How easy was it to use `<name of feature>`" and a response scale ranging from 1 (very difficult) to 5 (very easy).

![CES survey](../images/blog/nps-csat-ces/ces-survey.png)

> CES is great for debugging UX problems in your app and pinpointing problem areas.

Reviewer: You also mention this about CSAT, is CES better or worse for this? I suspect better, but why?

Author: I've reworked CSAT section, so there is less of a "conflict" here

### How to calculate CES score

> To find your CES score, you calculate the average score of all your responses. That is: `sum of all responses / number of responses = CES score`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To find your CES score, calculate the average score of all your responses. That is: `sum of all responses / number of responses = CES score`
```

![CES score](../images/blog/nps-csat-ces/ces-score.png)

For example, let's say you survey `100` people. If the sum of all their responses is `450`, your CES score is `4.5`.

### What is a good CES score for SaaS?

> While there are no published benchmarks for CES scores, you should aim for a score of 4 or higher. Any lower is a sign that users are struggling to use your app and this will lead to churn.

Reviewer: There seems to be some benchmarks? Like this gartner one: 

![Screenshot 2023-11-17 at 9 18 41 AM](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/assets/34755028/744c674b-cc6b-44f2-8e9c-e21dcbc78d9d)

Author: This was the only one I was able to find. Most other articles are pointing to this, but the report is behind a paywall (and so I assume most are using this same picture as a result). I'm reluctant to include it since it doesn't give anymore context, like industry etc.

### Drawbacks of CES

CES surveys focus on a single feature interaction and are very narrow in scope. So, while they help you debug UX issues, they don't give you insights into overall satisfaction with your feature.

Additionally, CES only tells you if a feature is difficult to use, but it doesn't tell you _why_. To counteract this, you need to ask follow-up questions, such as:

- What makes `<feature name>` difficult to use?
- What could we do to make it easier to use?

### When to use CES surveys

To best debug UX problems, you should use CES surveys after key interactions such as:

- **After using a feature for the time** – to understand how intuitive it is.
- **After a major UI update** – to confirm users can still navigate through your app effectively.
- **When a user is migrating from a competitor's product to yours** – to highlight areas for improvement in onboarding.

## NPS vs CSAT vs CES: Which one is best?

In an ideal world, you could use all three survey types. However, survey fatigue means that it's not possible to send surveys to your users constantly, so you need to prioritize which ones to use.

> Our recommendation is to use CSAT before you have [product-market fit](https://posthog.com/founders/measure-product-market-fit), and NPS after you do:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our recommendation is to use CSAT before you have [product-market fit](/founders/measure-product-market-fit), and NPS after you do:
```

> Before product-market fit, your app is constantly changing, so it makes sense to focus on the short-term only and thus use CSAT. Conversely, once you've achieved product-market fit, you can focus on the long-term and use NPS.

Reviewer: Why would you use either of these over user interviews or open feedback? Feels like a bit of a weak reason.

> Lastly, we prefer to avoid using CES as its scope is too narrow. There are other ways to understand if a feature is easy to use, like interviews or user testing. CSAT or NPS surveys generate far better insights, so we prefer to avoid fatiguing users with CES surveys.

Reviewer: I'm not convinced CES is too narrow, but CSAT is not? They seem very similar so this feels like a weak reason.

Author: reworked

### What is a good CES score for SaaS?

While there are no published benchmarks for CES scores, you should aim for a score of 4 or higher. Any lower is a sign that users are struggling to use your app and this will lead to churn.

### Drawbacks of CES

CES surveys focus on a single feature interaction and are very narrow in scope. So while they help you debug UX issues, they don't give you insights into overall satisfaction with your feature.

Additionally, CES only tells you if a feature is difficult to use, but it doesn't tell you _why_. To counteract this, you need to ask follow-up questions, such as:

- What makes `<feature name>` difficult to use?
- What could we do to make it easier to use?

### When to use CES surveys

To best debug UX problems, you should use CES surveys after key interactions, such as:

- **After using a feature for the time** – to understand how intuitive it is.
- **After a major UI update** – to confirm users can still navigate through your app effectively.
- **When a user is migrating from a competitor's product to yours** – to highlight areas for improvement in onboarding.

> ## NPS vs CSAT vs CES: Which one is best?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Which one should you use?
```

> Our recommendation is to use CSAT before you have [product-market fit](/founders/measure-product-market-fit), and NPS after you do.
> 
> Before product-market fit, your app is constantly changing as you figure out what to build, so it makes sense to focus on the short-term only. CSAT surveys will enable to you quickly determine if your changes are meeting the expectations of your users, helping you iterate faster. On the other hand, NPS is better for understanding long-term user sentiment, so is not well suited for rapidly evolving products.
> 
> Conversely, once you've achieved product-market fit and your product is more stable, NPS will be more valuable. At this stage, you're looking to grow and maintain a loyal user base, and NPS provides a clearer picture of which of your users are likely to retain or churn.
> 
> CES surveys don't provide insights into short or long-term user sentiment, so we prefer to avoid using them. However, CES can be useful if ease of use is key feature differentiating you from your competitors. For example, [Linear](https://linear.app/) emphasizes it's speed and keyboard shortcuts as a differentator from it's main competitor [Jira](https://www.atlassian.com/software/jira). In this case, measuring CES over time can be an indicator of whether your product is maintaining its competitive advantage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here's what we recommend:

- **Use CSAT before before product-market fit.** Your app is constantly changing at this stage as you figure out what to build, so it makes sense to focus on the short term only. CSAT surveys enable to you quickly determine if your changes are meeting expectations, so you can iterate further. Also consider [measuring product-market fit](/founders/measure-product-market-fit) using a PMF survey.

- **Use NPS after you've achieved product-market fit.** At this stage, you're looking to grow and maintain a loyal user base. NPS provides a clearer picture than CSAT of which of your users are likely to retain or churn.

- **Use CES surveys if ease of use is a competitive advantage.** CES surveys don't provide any insight into short or long-term user sentiment, but they're useful if ease of use is _critical_ to your product. [Linear](https://linear.app/) , for example, emphasizes speed and keyboard shortcuts as a key benefit compared to its main competitor, [Jira](https://www.atlassian.com/software/jira). In this case, measuring CES over time can be an indicator of whether your product is maintaining its competitive advantage.
```

Before product-market fit, your app is constantly changing as you figure out what to build, so it makes sense to focus on the short-term only. CSAT surveys will enable to you quickly determine if your changes are meeting the expectations of your users, helping you iterate faster. On the other hand, NPS is better for understanding long-term user sentiment, so is not well suited for rapidly evolving products.

Conversely, once you've achieved product-market fit and your product is more stable, NPS will be more valuable. At this stage, you're looking to grow and maintain a loyal user base, and NPS provides a clearer picture of which of your users are likely to retain or churn.

CES surveys don't provide insights into short or long-term user sentiment, so we prefer to avoid using them. However, CES can be useful if ease of use is key feature differentiating you from your competitors. For example, [Linear](https://linear.app/) emphasizes it's speed and keyboard shortcuts as a differentator from it's main competitor [Jira](https://www.atlassian.com/software/jira). In this case, measuring CES over time can be an indicator of whether your product is maintaining its competitive advantage.

> Lastly, it's worth mentioning that neither NPS, CSAT, or CES surveys are a replacement for [talking to your users](/product-engineers/10x-engineers-do-user-interviews). Surveys are efficient at collecting data from a large audience and thus are useful for quickly identifying general trends in user opinions. However, they lack the depth and nuanced understanding that can be gained from direct conversations with your users. 
> 
> User interviews are time-consuming, though, and so not scalable for larger user bases. Thus it's best to combining surveys with regular interviews. This approach allows you to gather both broad quantitative insights and deep qualitative feedback.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Just remember that neither NPS, CSAT, nor CES surveys can replace [talking to your users](/product-engineers/10x-engineers-do-user-interviews). 

Surveys are an efficient way to collect data from a large audience and identify general trends. But they lack the depth and nuanced understanding that can be gained from direct conversations with your users. 

Combining surveys with regular interviews allows you to gather both broad quantitative insights and deep qualitative feedback.
```

---

> date: 2023-11-17

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2023-11-29
```

title: "NPS vs CSAT vs CES: Which is best for SaaS?"
author:
  - lior-neu-ner
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-marketing/marketing-hog.jpg
featuredImageType: full
tags:
  - Product analytics
  - Product engineers
  - User research
  - Growth engineering
---

The two most important metrics in SaaS are growth and retention. [User surveys](/surveys) are a great way to unlock insights into how to improve them, but which survey type gives you the best insights? 

> Net promoter score (NPS), customer satisfaction (CSAT) and customer effort score (CES) are three of the most popular surveys and in this post we'll dive into our choice for which one is best for SaaS.

Author: ```suggestion
Net promoter score (NPS), customer satisfaction (CSAT) and customer effort score (CES) are three of the most popular surveys and in this post we'll dive into our choice for which one is best for SaaS apps.
```

| [Square](https://d1g145x70srn7h.cloudfront.net/documents/investor-relations/presentations/05-11-2018-overview.pdf) | 70 |
| [Zoom](https://blog.zoom.us/zooms-nps-dominates-video-conferencing/) | 69 | 
| [DocuSign](https://www.docusign.com/why-docusign) | 66 |
| [Zapier](https://www.comparably.com/brands/zapier) | 64 |
| [Slack](https://www.comparably.com/brands/slack) | 53 |
| [Mailchimp](https://www.comparably.com/brands/mailchimp) | 47 |
| [Netflix](https://www.comparably.com/brands/netflix) | 46 |
| [Twilio](https://www.comparably.com/brands/twilio) | 34 |
| [Dropbox](https://www.comparably.com/brands/dropbox) | 27 | 

### Drawbacks of NPS

NPS can be tricky because it's often contextless. It gives you an indication of your users' sentiment toward your product but not much else.

To counteract this, it's best to ask follow-up questions in your NPS survey, like:

- Which features do you find most useful?
- What are you finding difficult to do?
- Is there a feature or aspect of the product that particularly disappoints you?
- What would it take to improve your score to a 9 or 10?
- Would you be open to a follow-up call to discuss your feedback in more detail?

> NPS is particularly handy for understanding long-term user satisfaction.

Author: ```suggestion
## When to use NPS surveys

NPS is particularly handy for understanding long-term user satisfaction.
```

With this in mind, it's best to wait for users to properly experience your app. Then, you should run NPS surveys every month or quarter to understand how their experience changes over time. This enables you to identify trends in how your product changes are affecting your user experience.

### How to use NPS to improve your app

First, focus on the feedback from your main target audience only. Do this by assigning a [user persona](/product-engineers/how-to-create-user-personas) to each person that responded to your survey and then filtering out those who don't match your key persona.

Next, **focus your attention on the passive responses** (the users who responded with 7 or 8). These users will be the easiest to convert into active promoters of your product and there's usually just one or two things holding them back.

Find out what these things are (by conducting interviews or follow-up surveys) and address their feedback with product changes. Once you've done so, let them know and they'll be grateful you've taken their input seriously. This should persuade them into becoming promoters.

> Once you've done so, repeat the same steps for detractors who responded with 5 or 6. You can also repeat the process again for detractors who responded from 0-4, but keep in mind that the lower their response is, the more effort it will take to improve – which may not be worthwhile.

Author: ```suggestion
Then, repeat the same steps for detractors who responded with 5 or 6. You can also repeat the process again for detractors who responded from 0-4, but keep in mind that the lower their response is, the more effort it will take to improve – which may not be worthwhile.
```
